# Employee_attrition
Employee Atrrition project helps to analyze the employee data and identifies the key feature to predict at-risk employees will retain or not.
Build predictive model to support proactive decision-making in workforce management.The employee dataset is read as a dataframe. The dataset is mixture of numerical and categorical data which are seperated for analysis purpose. 9 columns are there in a categorical data and 26 columns are there in a numerical data.Attrition from categorical data is mapped to NO-0 and YES-1 as numerical data for better understanding.Now the Attrition count is taken for YES and NO. Here the dataset with NO attrition rate is much higher than the YES attrition rate. Data preprocessing is done to handle missing value and NAN value, all the values in the dataset are converted to numerical data and the irrelevant column aare dropped. Feature is stored in a pickle file as feature_name.pkl.Feature and target are defined. Inorder to handle the imbalance in dataset SMOTE+Tomek method is used to resample the training dataset.
   Standard Scaler is done inorder to maintain uniformity among the columns and the scaling is stored as scaler.pkl pickle file.Now the model is trained using Logistic Regression and class_weight='balanced' parameter is given inorder to balance any imbalance data, then predicted target and sigmoid function are calculated and model is stored in a pickle file as linr_model.pkl.By adjusting Threshold value , at 0.5 threshold the confusion matrix prediction is better and gives accuracy as 87%.
   By loading all the 3 pickle file in streamlit the attrition rate of the employee is calculated by filling the input form in the streamlit and prediction is made for the attrition rate for 0 and 1. Performance rating is also calculated by selecing certain feature and the model is again trained and the pickle files are again loaded to the streamlit to find the performance of the employee.
